CORS_FIX_SUMMARY.md, before:

# CORS Fix Summary - Complete Solution

## ✅ What Was Fixed

### 1. Created Dedicated CORS Middleware
**File:** `backend/middleware/corsMiddleware.js`

- Strict origin control (only allows exact matches)
- Proper preflight OPTIONS handling
- Supports all required methods and headers
- Credentials enabled
- Comprehensive logging

### 2. Updated Server Configuration
**File:** `backend/server.js`

- CORS middleware applied BEFORE all routes
- Preflight handler runs first
- Error handlers include CORS headers
- 404 handler includes CORS headers
- All routes automatically support OPTIONS

### 3. Created Caddyfile
**File:** `Caddyfile` (root directory)

- Configured for `api.xaura.pro`
- Reverse proxy with proper header forwarding
- CORS headers as fallback
- Preflight OPTIONS handling
- Security headers included

## 📋 Allowed Origins (Strict)

1. `https://www.xaura.pro`
2. `https://xaura.pro`
3. `http://localhost:5173`
4. `http://localhost:3000`

**Note:** `https://api.xaura.pro` is NOT in the allowed origins list (correct - it's the backend, not a frontend origin).

## 🔧 Supported Methods

- GET
- POST
- PUT
- PATCH
- DELETE
- OPTIONS

## 📦 Supported Headers

- Origin
- X-Requested-With
- Content-Type
- Accept
- Authorization
- Cache-Control
- Pragma

## ✅ Features

1. **Preflight Handling:** OPTIONS requests return 200 immediately
2. **Credentials:** `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true`
3. **Error CORS:** All error responses include CORS headers
4. **404 CORS:** 404 responses include CORS headers
5. **Logging:** Comprehensive CORS logging for debugging

## 🚀 Deployment Steps

### For Railway Backend:

1. **Deploy the updated code** (already pushed to GitHub)
2. **Configure Caddyfile** (if using Caddy reverse proxy):
   - The `Caddyfile` is in the root directory
   - Railway should pick it up automatically if Caddy is configured
   - If not using Caddy, the backend CORS middleware handles everything

### Testing:

1. **Test preflight:**
   ```bash
   curl -X OPTIONS https://api.xaura.pro/api/appointment-management/walk-in \
     -H "Origin: https://www.xaura.pro" \
     -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: POST" \
     -v
   ```

2. **Test actual request:**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST https://api.xaura.pro/api/appointment-management/walk-in \
     -H "Origin: https://www.xaura.pro" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
     -d '{"serviceId":"...","price":100}' \
     -v
   ```

## 🔍 Verification Checklist

- [x] CORS middleware created
- [x] CORS applied before all routes
- [x] Preflight OPTIONS handled
- [x] Error handlers include CORS
- [x] 404 handler includes CORS
- [x] Caddyfile created
- [x] Allowed origins restricted
- [x] Credentials enabled
- [x] All methods supported
- [x] All headers supported

## 📝 Notes

- The backend CORS middleware is the primary solution
- Caddyfile provides fallback CORS headers (if using Caddy)
- All routes automatically support OPTIONS via the middleware
- Error responses will always include CORS headers

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

If CORS issues persist:

1. Check backend logs for `[CORS]` messages
2. Verify the origin in browser DevTools Network tab
3. Ensure the frontend is using one of the allowed origins
4. Check that Authorization header is being sent
5. Verify Caddyfile is being used (if applicable)

Commit message:

Update: Clarify Caddyfile is reference only, not used by Railway

CORS_FIX_SUMMARY.md, after:

# CORS Fix Summary - Complete Solution

## ✅ What Was Fixed

### 1. Created Dedicated CORS Middleware
**File:** `backend/middleware/corsMiddleware.js`

- Strict origin control (only allows exact matches)
- Proper preflight OPTIONS handling
- Supports all required methods and headers
- Credentials enabled
- Comprehensive logging

### 2. Updated Server Configuration
**File:** `backend/server.js`

- CORS middleware applied BEFORE all routes
- Preflight handler runs first
- Error handlers include CORS headers
- 404 handler includes CORS headers
- All routes automatically support OPTIONS

### 3. Caddyfile (Reference Only)
**File:** `docs/Caddyfile.example` (if needed for manual Caddy setup)

- **Note:** Railway doesn't use Caddy by default
- The CORS middleware handles all CORS requirements
- Caddyfile is in `.gitignore` to prevent Railway build issues
- Only use if you manually configure Caddy as reverse proxy

## 📋 Allowed Origins (Strict)

1. `https://www.xaura.pro`
2. `https://xaura.pro`
3. `http://localhost:5173`
4. `http://localhost:3000`

**Note:** `https://api.xaura.pro` is NOT in the allowed origins list (correct - it's the backend, not a frontend origin).

## 🔧 Supported Methods

- GET
- POST
- PUT
- PATCH
- DELETE
- OPTIONS

## 📦 Supported Headers

- Origin
- X-Requested-With
- Content-Type
- Accept
- Authorization
- Cache-Control
- Pragma

## ✅ Features

1. **Preflight Handling:** OPTIONS requests return 200 immediately
2. **Credentials:** `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true`
3. **Error CORS:** All error responses include CORS headers
4. **404 CORS:** 404 responses include CORS headers
5. **Logging:** Comprehensive CORS logging for debugging

## 🚀 Deployment Steps

### For Railway Backend:

1. **Deploy the updated code** (already pushed to GitHub)
2. **Configure Caddyfile** (if using Caddy reverse proxy):
   - The `Caddyfile` is in the root directory
   - Railway should pick it up automatically if Caddy is configured
   - If not using Caddy, the backend CORS middleware handles everything

### Testing:

1. **Test preflight:**
   ```bash
   curl -X OPTIONS https://api.xaura.pro/api/appointment-management/walk-in \
     -H "Origin: https://www.xaura.pro" \
     -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: POST" \
     -v
   ```

2. **Test actual request:**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST https://api.xaura.pro/api/appointment-management/walk-in \
     -H "Origin: https://www.xaura.pro" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
     -d '{"serviceId":"...","price":100}' \
     -v
   ```

## 🔍 Verification Checklist

- [x] CORS middleware created
- [x] CORS applied before all routes
- [x] Preflight OPTIONS handled
- [x] Error handlers include CORS
- [x] 404 handler includes CORS
- [x] Caddyfile created
- [x] Allowed origins restricted
- [x] Credentials enabled
- [x] All methods supported
- [x] All headers supported

## 📝 Notes

- The backend CORS middleware is the primary solution
- Caddyfile provides fallback CORS headers (if using Caddy)
- All routes automatically support OPTIONS via the middleware
- Error responses will always include CORS headers

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

If CORS issues persist:

1. Check backend logs for `[CORS]` messages
2. Verify the origin in browser DevTools Network tab
3. Ensure the frontend is using one of the allowed origins
4. Check that Authorization header is being sent
5. Verify Caddyfile is being used (if applicable)
